# Overview

* Moloch DAO highly recommends projects set up a Gnosis Safe or hardware wallet to receive their grant deposits. Once a guild is accepted into Moloch DAO they cannot change their member address without ragequitting all of their shares and reapplying for membership, so selecting a secure multi-signature wallet or hardware wallet - like Gnosis Safe - makes grant distributions much safer and easier to manage for all parties. Guilds can use their member wallet address to set a delegate key to a Metamask address or other mobile wallets to allow for more convenient access to voting or proposal submission procedures. For more information on how to set up a multi-sig or hardware wallet, [please visit this guide](https://medium.com/molochdao/moloch-summoning-guide-12a2a288e0ff). 
* Upon being awarded a grant, guilds must identify an individual to serve as delegate for the guild (role outlined below). All active guilds must maintain one member (if they are newly founded and pursuing funding) or one share (once they have received funding and wish to continue operations in the DAO). A guild without an active member in its ranks or that does not hold at least one Moloch DAO share will not be recognized as a Moloch guild by the community. Note: if a guild chooses to ragequit 100% of their shares, they are effectively and officially dissolving their membership within the DAO. If the guild desires to reapply for funding at a later date they must recruit an active member to serve as liaison and submit their proposal for consideration according to the procedures outlined in Section 3.3 Starting a New Guild and Section 4.1 Proposal Process. 
* Members vote to approve guild proposals to lead a specific operational or research initiative. Guild transparency will be provided via monthly progress reports, quarterly member meetings, and cross-guild meetings (as necessary). These procedures are outlined below.
